5口 The analysis of
Culture
Raymond williams
There are three general categories in the definition of culture. There is, first, the
ideal, in which culture is a state or process of human perfection, in terms of certain
absolute or universal values. The analysis of culture, if such a definition is accepted
is essentially the discovery and description, in lives and works, of those values which
can be seen to compose a timeless order, or to have permanent reference to the
universal human condition. Then, second, there is the 'documentary,, in which
culture is the body of intellectual and imaginative work, in which, in a detailed way
human thought and experience are variously recorded. The analysis of culture, from
uch a
the activity of criticism, by which the nature of the thought and
experience, the details of the language, form and convention in which these are
Ictive, are described and valued. Such criticism can range from a process very
similar to the 'ideal analysis, the discovery of the best that has been thought and
written in the world, through a process which, while interested in tradition, takes
as its primary emphasis the particular work being studied (its clarification and
valuation being the principal end in view) to a kind of historical criticism which
after analysis of particular works, seek to relate them to the particular traditions and
societies in which they appeared. Finally, third, there is the'social'definition of
culture, in which culture is a description of a particular way of life, which expresses
certain meanings and values not only in art and learning but also in institutions and
ordinary behaviour. The analysis of culture, from such a defnition, is the
clarification of the meanings and values implicit and explicit in a particular way of
life. a particular culture. Such analysis will include the historical criticism always
referred to, in which intellectual and imaginative works are analysed in relation to
particular traditions and societies, but will also include analy sis of elements in the
way of life that to followers of the other definitions are not'culture' at all: the
organization of production, the structure of the family, the structure of institutions
which express or govern social relationships, the characteristic forms through
members of the society communicate. Again, such analysis ranges from an ' ideal
From Williams, R, The Long Resolution, Chatto& Windus, London, 1961. pp 57-70